POLLAPP

Jacob A. Nelson
Mobile Application Development I
University of Massachusetts Lowell
December 2, 2021

ABOUT POLLAPP
The idea behind PollApp is to be a dedicated, easy-to-use platform for creating and responding to custom
polls. PollApp would take away the hassle of trying to host a poll or survey and gather data from several
people or sources. Its purpose is to be all-in-one, where creating polls, answering polls, and viewing
the results could all easily take place within the app.

A user of PollApp would be able to log in, create a poll, and then share the ID of that poll with those
they wish to answer the poll. The user answering the poll would be able to type that ID into the "Find
Poll" section of the app and then be given a page with the poll available to them in an answerable format.

There exist other apps that accomplish a similar goal, but very few seem to be as simple or easy as what
I envisioned for PollApp, and others didn't have nearly enough features. I encountered a handful of apps
that were unsatisfactory in this regard. There is an app called Pollie that allows users to share and create
polls, but the polls could only consist of a single question. What may have been even a worse offense was
that the polls on that app were both taken and displayed on webpages, outside of the app. Pollie was one of
a few apps I discovered that were guilty of this.

ABOUT DEVELOPING POLL APP
Time and lack of prior experience in Android programming were the biggest constraints in developing this
app. (If a semester was two months longer, I would likely have a more complete verion of the app.) To dev-
elop the best possible version of my app with the experience and amount of time I had, there were some
compromises I had to make in terms of what I wanted the app to be, versus what I could realistically pro-
duce. For instance, the current "version" of PollApp uses local databases for all of its information,
rather than hosting information like user login info or poll data in an external server or cloud. Managing
a database and knowing about server/cloud communications are not subjects I had prior experience with, so
I made the choice to keep my databases for PollApp local. In the future, when all of PollApp's local features
are completely functioning, such as if/when I take Mobile App Development II, I will shift my focus on getting
external server communications incorporated into the app.

Although it may not be a completely finished, working model of what I envisioned, I am extremely proud of
both what I have learned in this course and accomplished with my project. In these few months, I went from
knowing virtually nothing about developing for Android to feeling actually somewhat competent in my ability
in making a working, useful app. There is still a lot for me to learn, but I feel like the skills I have gained
and continue to gain as a developer are invaluble.