Jacob Nelson
Mobile App Programming
Assignment 1 - Reflection, Ideas, and Planning

1. After getting the results of my survey, I have started to come up with some beginning ideas for what sort
of app I'd like to program. There were a few ideas offered by the people I surveyed that seemed really great
but I worry that they might be too involved for my current skill level. For instance, one of my interviewees
had the idea of an app to quickly transfer files between the user's phone and their PC by allowing the user
to place a file in the folder of the PC from their phone and vice versa. But this idea is certain to demand
a lot of workarounds, such as security systems and access protocols between the filesystems of the two devices.

However, thinking about and hearing other people's app ideas started to give an idea not listed on the survey
that I submitted. Conducting the survey actually gave me the idea for a survey-conducting app, where a user
can create or respond to surveys.

2. In regards to the conflict between the desire to have a free app, versus the developer's desire or need to
get paid: there are two possible compromises, in my eyes. The first is a Wikipedia-style "donate if you can"
option for the user, where if they enjoy the app enough, they have the option to throw a few bucks the dev-
eloper's way. This is a model that works with lots of open-source or free software and websites, but of course,
it is not a guaranteed way to make income (unless your app is really, really great). The second compromise I
see as appropriate would be to make the app free, but have a paid premium version of the app that offers more
features. For instance, I have this app called Flightradar24 that uses GPS and flight data to give you a live
map with airplanes and helicopters that are in their exact GPS position, and you can click on the planes to see
where they are coming from, where they are going, their alititude, etc. But if you wanted to know the current
exact speed of the vehicle or the model of the vehicle, you would need to pay for the app. I think that model
is a good one to have because it allows for the free version of the app to still be great but the paid version
can be even better.

3. Letterboxd is an app that offers an excellent UI/UX. It is essentially a social media website/app based around
user-entered movie reviews. I like the interface very much because it makes perfect sense: I am never confused
about how to navigate it as it makes it extremely convenient to go from page to page. Every icon that you think
would be a link IS a link to exactly where you think it should go. It is very clean and well organized and it has
a lot of great features and I have fun using it. I like that when you go to the page for a particular film, it
shows you a horizontal list (with pictures) of the cast and their character names, and the same for the crew mem-
bers (director, writer, etc), and you can click on any of these cast or crew members to see a ton of information
them and their bio and what other films they were involved in.

4. As I mentioned in #1, I have started to play with the idea of a survey/poll conducting and answering app. This seems
like it has the potential to be achievable for me to develop, and maybe it will be actually useful, as well. I have
even begun to imagine some of the details and features it would have. I also have looked around to find apps that
function similarly, such as Pollie. Something I noticed about Pollie is that you can only set up polls that ask one
question. If I were to make this app I would allow polls to consist of one or multiple questions. The app would
display the results of the graphically, depending on the type of question. Of course, I would like to start out
simply. Perhaps the app will start out offering only a "choose one from the list" type of poll, but as the app
is developed, I could add different types of poll questions, such as questions that has the user rank options from
a list, or questions that asks the user to use a slider to slide a bar from 0 to 100 (i.e. on a scale of 0 to 100,
rank how likely you are to do X...).